---
title: Shivers
author: Julian
type: post
date: 2004-06-30T22:33:57+00:00
url: /2004/06/30/shivers/

---
In NLP they&#8217;re called anchors.

Simple sensory inputs that trigger a whole range of feelings, memories, thoughts, imagined futures, new capabilities&#8230;

For most people music can be one of the most powerful anchors &#8211; the idea of &#8220;our song&#8221; is not a lover&#8217;s cliche without reason.

A sign of my age (and a serious lack of music buying during the later years) &#8211; a significant majority of my music collection is still on vinyl. Despite the lack of a functioning deck for several years I&#8217;ve lugged a couple of hundred LPs through a divorce and a couple of house moves. The most recent move was enough to ensure that I did something about the situation.

Thanks to Google I found [Musonic UK][1], just down the road in Watford, manufacturers of replacement styli. Waiting on my doormat when I got home from work today was a small padded envelope containg the desired item and within a few minutes I had the deck hooked up and ready to play.

What to play first? Almost at random I selected &#8220;Victims of the Fury&#8221; &#8211; a [Robin Trower][2] album from 1980 that I&#8217;d not heard in many, many years. 

As the first powerful, wailing chords of &#8220;Jack and Jill&#8221; filled my living room I was taken straight back to my 18 year old self, recovering once-dark memories of the short-lived love for which this album (and in particular this track) were the &#8220;mourning&#8221; songs&#8230; 

Within seconds that spine-shivery, chest-warming feeling was back &#8211; the power of music that stays dormant inside ready to awake.

I&#8217;ve missed this.

 [1]: https://www.musonic.co.uk
 [2]: https://www.trowerpower.com/