---
title: You You
author: Julian
type: post
date: 2003-11-15T10:30:00+00:00
excerpt: A theatrical gem in an unexpected place...
url: /2003/11/15/you-you/

---
[Maison Bertaux][1] in Greek Street is a long-established patisserie in a seedy-ish bit of Soho. An unprepossessing shopfront admits you to a cramped room filled with four small tables where you can consume good coffee and the best French cakes in London&#8230;
  
If you go there on a Sunday morning you will most likely be served by [Metin][2] &#8211; a friendly articulate guy perhaps early 50s. But on Thursday night Maison Bertaux was transformed into the Maison Bertaux Theatre Club, and Metin is the writer, director and lead actor of &#8220;You You&#8221;.

<blockquote class="aligncenter" cite="'You You' by Metin Marlow ">
  <p>
    Elephant. A pachyderm with a prehensile proboscis
  </p>
</blockquote>

We are greeted by Johann &#8211; another sometime worker in the shop &#8211; who pours us a glass of wine and leaves us (the 7 people that _are_ the audience) to sit and chat, eyes wandering over the Victorian shopfittings and [Lincrusta][3]-covered walls.
  
A little after 9:00 Johann picks up his piano-accordion and announces that he will play us in to the strains of the &#8220;You-You waltz&#8221; &#8211; so we troop upstairs and settle in the 15&#8242; x 15&#8242; upstairs room, lit only by four desk lamps with red bulbs.
  
Three actors ([Metin Marlow][2], Tania Wade, Guy Manning), dressed in black file in and proceed to entrance us for the next 45 minutes. No props. No scenery. Just inter-action and swirling, trance-making dialogue.

<blockquote class="aligncenter" cite="'You You' by Metin Marlow ">
  <p>
    ..The lunatic, the sane<br /> The brain, the brain<br /> The brain can&#8217;t explain&#8230;
  </p>
</blockquote>

What&#8217;s it about?
  
About a man trying to buy a greyhound in a public toilet.
  
About a friend who &#8220;will die for him&#8221;.
  
About lust so strong that both man and woman are reduced to half-sentences.
  
About loneliness.
  
About regret for missed opportunities, passion unexpressed.
  
About life lived to the core &#8211; but also a sense that even in the deepest of relationships our lives merely touch tangentially before continuing their own trajectories&#8230;

But _you_ could see other things there &#8211; that&#8217;s the power&#8230;

<blockquote class="aligncenter" cite="'You You' by Metin Marlow ">
  <p>
    I remember remembering you since I first remember.
  </p>
</blockquote>

 [1]: https://www.wguides.com/city/1/134_53940.cfm
 [2]: https://66.102.11.104/search?q=cache:RwpLGAvFlzgJ:www.actornet.co.uk/metin-marlow/metinmarlow.pdf+metin+marlow&hl=en&ie=UTF-8
 [3]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/homes/glossary/glossary_l.shtml