---
title: Renewal
author: Julian
type: post
date: 2003-07-13T23:18:00+00:00
excerpt: |
  Excerpts from Tom Peters' "renewal 50" list...
slug: renewal 
aliases: ["/2003/07/13/renewal"]

---
On Tom Peter&#8217;s site the [Renewal 50][1]. Selected favourites:

> 1. Go to the nearest magazine shop. Now. Spend 20 minutes. Pick up 20-twenty!-magazines. None should be ones you normally read. Spend the better part of a day perusing them. Tear stuff out. Make notes. Create files. Goal: Stretch! Repeat&#8230; monthly&#8230; or at least bimonthly.
> 
> 2. Go to the Web. Now. Relax. Follow your bliss! Visit at least 15 sites you haven&#8217;t visited before. Follow any chain that is even a little intriguing. Bookmark a few of the best. Repeat&#8230; once a week.
> 
> 3. Take off this Wednesday afternoon. Wander the closest mall&#8230; for two hours. Note the stuff you like. (And hate.) Products, merchandising, whatever. Repeat&#8230; bimonthly.
> 
> 4. Buy a packet of 3&#215;5-inch notecards. Carry them around with you. Always. Record cool stuff. Awful stuff. Daily. Review your card pack every Sunday. (Obsess on this!)
> 
> 6. Project stuck in a rut? Look through your Rolodex. Who&#8217;s the oddest duck in there? Call her/him. Invite her/him to lunch. Pick her/his brain for a couple of hours about your project.
> 
> 7. Create a new habit: Visit your Rolodex. Once a month. Pick a name of someone interesting you&#8217;ve lost touch with. Take her/him to lunch&#8230; next week.
> 
> 8. New habit: You&#8217;re in a meeting. Someone you don&#8217;t know makes an interesting contribution. Invite him/her to lunch&#8230; in the next two weeks.
> 
> 9. You run across somebody interesting. As a matter of course, ask her (him) what&#8217;s the best thing she/he&#8217;s read in the last 90 days. Order it from Amazon.com&#8230; this afternoon.
> 
> 10. Take tomorrow afternoon off. Rain or shine. Wander a corner of the city you&#8217;ve never explored before.
> 
> 11. Go to the local Rite Aid. Buy a $2 notebook. Title it Observations I. Start recording. Now. Anything and everything. (Now=Now)
> 
> 15. Read a provocative article in a business journal. Triggers a thought? E-mail the author. So what if you never hear back? (The odds are actually pretty high that you will. Trust me.)
> 
> 37. Get up from your desk. Now. Take a two-hour walk on the beach. In the hills. Whatever. Repeat&#8230; once every couple of weeks. (Weekly?) 

[via [Esther Derby][2]]

 [1]: https://www.tompeters.com/toms_world/brand_you.asp#renew
 [2]: https://www.estherderby.com/weblog/blogger.html