---
title: It’s not all IT’s fault
author: Julian
type: post
date: 2011-12-22T14:58:19+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=48568
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - no

---
I started to comment on Euan Semple’s post [The biggest challenges clients face][1], but thought it might be better hosted over here.

Most of the points in the post I agree with, but isn&#8217;t time that we moved on from the simplistic sniping at IT (or any other specific department or interest group) and started looking at the systemic reasons underlying opposition?

In my experience most people in organisations are trying their best to do what they think the organisation needs them to do. Certainly from a change management perspective opposition often comes from beliefs and perceptions rather than an intrinsic badness or stupidity.

I suspect that there are two organisational policies that lie behind much of the resistance to “social in the workplace” which few commentators seem to pick up:

  * executive performance management; and 
  * hidden financial drivers, especially the capitalisation of IT investments

**Performance Management**

A lot of executive bonuses are based on individual or team performance with little or no direct link to company performance (provided the company performs well enough to be able to pay bonuses). 

Is it any surprise that there can be a built in disincentive to cross-company collaboration and sharing of ideas outside the formal structure?

**The hidden financial drivers**

At the risk of offending any accountants who are reading, at the simplest level companies capitalise investments that will have benefit over more than one year. This means that in accounting terms the costs of building a new IT system are spread over the useful life of the system.

Most large systems are capitalised because (it’s believed) they have a useful life measured in years rather than months, and because they usually cost a lot of money.

The real problem comes when a system is no longer a useful fit to what the business needs but still has an asset value – to stop using the system in such a situation will have an impact that goes directly to the bottom line of the company as a write-down, so not something that the CFO is going to be at all happy about unless there are compelling business reasons.

This financial reality leads to a significant organisational pressure to “sweat the assets”, and thus to one leg of the resistance to change.

**Cost comes from Complexity**

At root, the cost of IT comes from complexity, and although there is obviously big money in building and selling complex software, that market wouldn’t exist if there wasn’t a demand for software suites that do “everything”.

It’s many times easier to make a process more complex than it is to simplify it, and putting complex software on top of an over-complex process can appear to make things better (for a while).

“Social” technologies can move a lot of organisational complexity (the “messy” relationship stuff) away from the core business systems, but they will never replace every system. (“Social ledgers” anyone?)

One fundamental thing that is needed is a reduction in the cost of software

e challenge of course is to find cheaper software to do what a company does. Most of the “social” technologies do just that, but inevitably there will be a period of parallel running, indeed there will still be some functions that cannot take place within a social tool (social ledgers anyone?). The knack seems to be to simplify as much as possible of how a business works so the next time you have to buy a system to keep track of the accounts, it can be simple and low cost.

There are huge vested interests at play here of course, and that in turn may lead to another systemic reason (albeit subconscious) for opposition from IT, based on fear. Not sure I’ve ever heard an expert on change management proclaim that the way to make frightened people change is to tell them they are a problem…

Having started with a pushback, I’m going to end by agreeing in part with Bruce Stewart&#160; &#8211; there is a role here for real leadership from the CIO – but often the people who need to be on board are the CFO and the HR Director too.

The real leap IMHO is to combine the willingness to think about how an organisation works and is designed whilst allowing a good part of that design to be emergent &#8211; so just HOW do we train our future leaders to think that way?

 [1]: https://www.euansemple.com/theobvious/2011/12/8/the-biggest-challenges-clients-face.html