---
title: Vegas
author: Julian
type: post
date: 2004-05-03T22:00:00+00:00
excerpt: A couple of observations from my visit to "Sin City"
url: /2004/05/03/vegas/

---
One of the things that has kept me away from this blog for so long was a week-long business trip to Las Vegas to visit the [NAB trade show][1]

Several Americans I know have said &#8220;please don&#8217;t judge our country on Vegas&#8221; &#8211; so I won&#8217;t. It&#8217;s a city based on flesh and money, but so are parts of many others across the world&#8230;

Two things that I will comment on though&#8230;

First one was at the Apple product launch &#8211; although I know people who use (and therefore evangelise about) Apples I had not previously experienced the full Apple acolyte experience in the mass. Imagine the scene &#8211; 2000 people in the Venetian Hotel. Apple&#8217;s Rob Schoeben came on stage and more or less said &#8220;We&#8217;ve 5 new products&#8221; and that was enough for the room to erupt in vigorous applause. The same theme followed for 90 minutes after every statement. My colleagues and I &#8211; techno-sceptics all &#8211; felt we had just left normality behind out on the Strip (!) and wandered into a very strange place&#8230;

Now I&#8217;ve upset all the Apple-philes&#8230;

The other thing that struck me was the number of examples of poor customer service that lurked under the surface of tips for everything&#8230; 

My example is taken from the breakfast buffet of the [hotel][2]. As befitted a 3600 bedroom hotel, the [buffet area][3] was huge, capable (at a guess) of seating about a thousand people. For much of the time it was only 10-15% full but regardless of the spare capacity there was always a long wait to get in. There were in fact two queues &#8211; firstly to pay, which even with 3 cashiers seemed to move very slowly &#8211; each transaction seemed to take at least two or three minutes to pay for a single-priced item. 

Secondly you had to queue for several minutes for a single waitress to pull people from the queue in the group size that seemed to suit the tables she wanted to fill. All of this at a snail&#8217;s pace. Plenty of other waiting staff wandering around delivering coffee and clearing tables (remember this is a buffet so you fetch your own food) but no-one moving very fast.

Looking at this from a process point of view still doesn&#8217;t make much sense &#8211; the company is happy because everyone has paid before they get in. Having a large &#8220;buffer stock&#8221; of customers waiting to be seated would make sense if there was a shortage of tables which had to be kept busy, but even at the busiest period I never saw the place at more than 50% utilisation. The constraint seemed to be completely artificial by insisting that everyone was led to a table by one particular member of staff. 

I&#8217;d love it if someone who is more familiar with US catering operations could explain the logic!

 [1]: http://www.nabshow.com/
 [2]: http://www.vegas.com/resorts/flamingo/
 [3]: http://www.vegas.com/searchagent/restaurant/ViewRestaurant.do?restaurantId=3542